Hi friends in this video let us discuss about passing
structure pointer to a function
So let us explain it
using an example programme. First we have a structure declaration
for employee with members Name, age and weight
Next we can see the prototype of a function
fun which passes a structure
employee pointer. Now in main we create a structure variable 'e'
with values abc, 20 and 55.5
Now we create a structure pointer ptr
and assign the address of 'e' to it.
Now we call the function fun by passing this
structure pointer ptr
So the control goes to  fun and the
function parameter to receive the structure pointer is obj
So obj also points to the structure variable
'e' now and here it prints name equal to
obj->name
So we will get abc printed similarly
obj->age will access 20 and the printf function will
print it
The next print statement will print obj->weight
which is 55.5 now
The control returns to main and finally return zero now
let us discuss about modifying a struct
element
So see this example
Programme
We create the same structure employee with members name, age
and weight and we have the function prototype for fun
which passes a structure pointer. Now in main
we create the structure variable e with values abc, 20
and 55.5
Now we create a structure pointer ptr and assigns
the address of e to it
And now we call the function fun by passing
this structure pointer ptr
So now the control goes to the function and in
the function the parameter is obj and using obj
we print the name, age and weight of employee 'e'.
and now we set  obj->age
which access age of 'e' to 30. Now control returns
to main and we print the age there
So we will get the modified value 30 printed
So this is how we can modify the structure members
from the function with a pointer passed.
So that's all and thank you for watching this video